# DS2 example input files 

The following folders contain examples of topology and rate files for Flink, Heron, and Timely:

* Folder `flink_wordcount_rates` is an example metrics repository containing rate files per operator instance and epoch, as required by the DS2 scaling manager. In case of online DS2 execution, the scaling manager expects _exactly one rate file per operator instance and time window (epoch)_ following the naming convention "some_name-epoch_number.file_extension". The files in `flink_wordcount_rates` correspond to 11 epochs (numbered from 0 to 10) and were generated by executing a wordcount dataflow on Flink.

* Folder `offline` contains a wordcount dataflow configuration file and a rate file generated by running this dataflow on Flink. Such files can be used for offline DS2 execution (see instructions in [README.md](https://github.com/strymon-system/ds2/blob/master/README.md)).

* Folder `topology` contains examples of topology files for Flink, Heron, and Timely. Headers in the files indicate the expected file format, which can also be found in the documentation of the [parsing functions](http://strymon.systems.ethz.ch/ds2/ds2/dataflow/parse/index.html) for each system.

* Folder `source_rates` contains an example source rate file, which can be used to explicitly set the true output rates of source operators in a dataflow. During online DS2 execution (see [README.md](https://github.com/strymon-system/ds2/blob/master/README.md)), the scaling manager first checks if there is a source rate file and, if so, overwrites the existing source operator rates with those in the source rate file before invoking the scaling policy.
